♪ It's fun to stay at the... ♪
♪ Y.M.C.A. ♪
♪ They have everything ♪
♪ For the men to enjoy ♪
♪ You can hang out
with all the boys ♪
♪ It's fun to stay at the... ♪
♪ Y.M.C.A. ♪
♪ You can get yourself clean ♪
♪ You can have a good meal ♪
♪ You can do whatever you feel ♪
All right. everybody off!
Whoo!
Gotta call this in.
Miss!
Dying on a streetcar
while dancing to Y.M.C.A.
What do you think?
Sounds like a crappy way to go.
Hey. Body I.D.'d as Serena Dunbrook.
34. lives in the pearl.
Probably on her way to work.
Which is the swank law firm
of Berman. Rautbort. and Associates.
Wallet biopsy on her purse?
This is our victim.
That's what she used to look like.
Sync and correction by Mlmlte
www.addic7ed.com
It's unofficial but Kick Squad's
thinking anaphylactic shock.
That could happen
from one little bee sting?
We need to get the M.E.
On her medical records.
See if she was allergic to anything.
Ask me. this is a waste of your time.
We don't know
if this was an accident yet.
Must've been a killer bee. huh?
There was a swarm that attacked a dog
in Cathedral Park last week.
Okay. come on.
20 bucks says no foul play.
Who's in?
Me.
Pay up.
Looks like a puncture wound.
Maybe a needle.
More like a nail.
Time to get Harper out of bed.
Ooh. lucky you.
Bet your gal's
wearing something sexy.
Here it is.
Cause of death: Anaphylactic shock.
Mode: Apitoxin.
As in bee venom.
Gold star.
Phylum Anthropoda.
Class insecta.
I sent a sample to a local apiarist
for further analysis.
That's a beekeeper.
I can play this game too.
Now. let's pretend
that it wasn't a bee sting.
Oh.
Going for the extra credit.
Well. it's definitely
a puncture wound.
But I can't tell you what made it.
I've never seen
a needle gauge this big.
So was she allergic to apitoxin?
No. But medical records
never kept anyone from dying.
I found close to 50 milligrams
of apitoxin in her system.
F.Y.I.. a bee sting carries
about .1 milligram.
That would make it a bee
the size of LeBron James.
More like the big three combined.
Okay. sports fans.
So Serena Dunbrook
gets on a Portland streetcar.
people erupt
into spontaneous dance...
And our opportunistic killer
takes advantage of the chaos.
injects her with bee venom...
Weird. but possible.
And definitely...
Definitely a homicide.
7:14 A.M.. there's your victim.
Got her.
Move past this.
All right.
Anything...
Anyone eying her wrong.
reaching for anything?
Okay. now slow it back down.
Look at 'em. It's like
they're waiting for a cue.
Now. that's a flash mob.
There.
We lost her.
Can you do anything. Wu?
No. That's it.
The camera's stationary.
She falls out of sight.
That flash mob was our witness pool.
Get this on the news.
Anyone innocent
should come right forward.
I want your full attention on
the streetcar death. all right?
We don't need the city scared
to use public transportation.
Now. Harrison Berman.
the head of the vic's law firm.
he's upset. he's angry.
we're gonna have to deal with this.
You sure this wasn't
a random killing?
It doesn't look like it.
All right. well. anything
you need. you let me know.
Everybody just loved Serena.
You couldn't meet that girl
and not fall for her charms.
Top of her class at law school.
I was a year beneath her.
She kinda took me under her wing.
And was Serena working
on anything that could
have motivated this?
A particular case.
a problematic client. anything?
Not that I remember.
Not everyone likes lawyers.
Well. we'll need to look through
all of Serena's casework
just to be certain.
Sure. Full access.
Whatever you need.
I'll messenger everything over.
Now. what about her personal life?
Boyfriend? Fiance?
I mean. she wasn't
ready to settle down.
She was...
She was really happy
with who she was.
I'm sorry.
You just find
the animal who did this.
We'll do everything we can. sir.
I'm sorry for your loss.
Harper's bee man just buzzed me.
Yeah. I went there.
What makes a guy wanna work every day
in such a dangerous environment?
What. robbery and homicide
too tame for you?
The Queen.
She likes you. Detective.
Don't be fooled.
She's fiercely protective
of her hive.
It's unusual that she should
show herself like this.
So. Mr. Spinella...
Professor.
Professor Spinella.
Were you able to analyze the apitoxin
that our coroner sent over?
Indeed I did. Detective.
And?
Well. it's not synthetic.
You mean someone harvested
50 milligrams of apitoxin
from actual bees?
Apparently so.
You see. natural apitoxin
carries geographical traits.
Signatures.
By analysis of the chemical
ratios of the venom.
one can determine
the geo-regional origins.
So where did the apitoxin
that killed
Serena Dunbrook come from?
Well. I'd definitely
categorize it as. uh. exotic.
Which would normally mean
China. Africa. France...
However. your apitoxin shows
levels of phospholipase too.
that I've never seen before.
This apitoxin has no known origin.
Uh. excuse me.
Unknown origin?
What is this. some Sci-Fi crap?
That stuff couldn't
just come out of nowhere.
What. do you think
he's hiding something?
Detectives.
In case I'm on that list of yours.
harvesting apitoxin
in that amount would require
much more sophisticated equipment
than I have at my disposal.
Besides. I was at the Howard Johnson
in Eugene last night
for this year's Oregon
beekeeper's con.
Pretty crowded convention?
Well. there's 12 of us. actually.
Anything else I can help you with?
No. Professor.
We'll be in touch.
A streetcar full of dancers.
and 12 bee geeks in a motel room?
Your suspect pool's
getting bigger. huh?
T.V. coverage paid off.
Say hi to your flash mob.
'Scuse me.
22 so far.
By the way. the Captain's been taking
a keen interest in this one.
He's even asking me what's going on.
Listen. then do us a favor.
While we talk to the village people.
can you check out the alibi
of Professor Spinella last night?
Some convention
at the Ho-Jo's in Eugene.
And get us the name of every
beekeeper who was there.
No problem.
Have fun with your interrogations.
We will.
- I didn't know anyone...
- On that streetcar.
- Every one of 'em was
- a stranger.
Then why were you there?
I got the invite.
- Totally random...
- Tweet. telling me a...
- Time and a...
- Place. and what to do.
- Get on at...
- Yamhill...
And dance the Y.M.C.A.
We've been told.
- Yeah. And then. immediately...
- Get off at alder.
I didn't see that girl.
There were a lot of us on there.
We were just dancing. having fun.
- How was I supposed...
- To know someone...
Was getting killed?
Can I go now?
Actually. no. Doug.
I'd like to go over it again.
if you don't mind.
From the beginning?
Well. yeah. unless you know
what happens in the end.
Well. like I said...
I got the same invitation
as everybody else did.
I figured I'd go have
some fun with some strangers.
It just sounds
like there's an echo in here.
'cause I keep hearing
the same thing. over and over again.
Okay. can I see the tweet?
A tech-savvy guy like yourself.
I'm sure you still have it
on your phone. right?
Um...
I got some personal stuff on there.
All right.
Well. let's talk about the victim.
So Serena Dunbrook
got on the streetcar
around the same time as you. right?
She's a pretty girl.
She stood right behind you.
You know. did you smell her perfume?
Did it turn you on
to be rubbed up against her?
No.
Hey. come on. Doug.
We have you on the videotape.
I was on the other side.
Really?
Because in your previous statement.
you said you didn't see her
at all. so which one is it?
Come on.
Let me see the phone. Doug.
Unless you're hiding something.
Ag waiver turned up a dummy account
opened with a spam e-mail.
All it takes is half a brain
and a laptop
to manipulate an IP address.
Benefit of social media...
Anyone can arrange cover
for a murder.
You get something
off this Doug shellow guy?
Yeah.
I think I just did.
Abandoned paper mill?
This doesn't look like home.
You know anything
about primrose paper?
I've heard of it.
That's all.
Old family business.
been here forever.
Do you really think
Doug shellow and John Coleman
know each other?
Let's hope letting them go pays off.
Hello. conspiracy.
So much for everybody
claiming to be strangers.
Who is that?
I can't get a good look at her.
Oh. run!
Aah!
Get in this office!
What the hell's going on?
Where'd those bees come from?
I don't know.
Here. use some of these.
Here.
Oh! I've never seen
so many damn bees in my life!
Wait. Where'd they go?
Maybe they're hiding. waiting for us.
Yeah. I don't think bees hide.
Oh. man. I got at least
a couple dozen bee stings.
This is crazy.
Someone gets killed with bee venom.
and we get attacked by a swarm?
Yeah. I don't think
it's a coincidence.
Yeah. maybe Wu was right
about a giant killer bee.
Come on.
Let's get- ow! Some help.
You're a bigger baby than he is.
Two beers. one water.
Bees usually sting
when threatened or provoked.
You kick a hive or something?
No. they just came out of nowhere
and headed straight for yours truly.
Aw. maybe you're their flower.
Excuse me?
Bees are highly
effective communicators.
A scout will fly around till
they find the perfect flower.
then it goes back to the hive
and signals the others to follow.
You learned all that in vet school?
Nope. Animal planet.
Well. they say anything about
training bees to attack people?
That sounds more like a bad movie.
Ew...
Well. shellow and Coleman
are still our best leads.
I just put out an APB.
What about our mystery woman?
Well. two guys were reporting to her.
So there's gotta be a connection
between the three of them.
the mill. and Serena Dunbrook.
Let's take a look at
the case files burman sent us.
Uh-uh. my patient is not
doing anything but resting
and not scratching
for the next eight hours.
Dude. if you were a dog.
I would've already tranquilized you.
She's right.
I got this.
You go to sleep.
- Thanks. doc.
- Bye.
I know. You're sorry.
but you have to work.
I just thought I'd let you know
what you'll be missing.
Look. I just have to
do some research.
I won't be long.
Yeah. well. you've been
turning this no-sleep thing
into an art form lately.
Night.
A Hexenbiest mark
can be found under the tongue
in both human form and morphed form.
Hey. It's me.
Did you hear about that girl
who was murdered on the tram?
Whoa! Easy. there. five-o.
You called me. remember?
Man.
Don't you have a partner
for this stuff?
Yeah. sure. because if I told him
my two main suspects
turned into bees.
he'd completely understand.
Lucky me.
So mellifers. huh?
Yeah. they had something to do
with a murder
on a Portland streetcar.
Murder?
Not really their shtick.
Well. bees bite. don't they?
- Yeah. but only when...
- Threatened. I know.
But I read in the book
that they also have
something to do
with balancing the ecotone.
- Huh.
- What does that mean?
That's just
some fancy-pants mumbo jumbo
for saying they're
like gossips. you know?
A creature community switchboard.
Or a social media.
Huh.
And if a mellifer
sends out a message.
it definitely means something
sketchy's going on somewhere.
Well. Hank and I were attacked
by a swarm of bees earlier.
if that's sketchy enough for you.
We were following two guys
who turned out to be mellifers.
And they met a woman.
Yeah? And?
What. you think I know everything
about every creature out there?
No. I don't need you for what
you know. I need your nose.
Oh. I get it.
So little Timmy's stuck in a well.
you need Lassie to come find him?
Boy. you really know how to
butter a guy up for a favor.
I got a bottle
of '78 Bordeaux in my trunk.
I can maybe catch a scent.
Okay.
Now. you said mellifers
deliver messages.
What kind of message is it
when they murder an innocent woman?
Maybe she wasn't so innocent.
Mellifers only have
one natural enemy.
Hexenbiests.
Look at you. hitting the books.
Oh. yeah.
I'm definitely getting
a female scent here.
Undeniable.
You're that sure?
No. her perfume.
It's called "undeniable."
Hey. wait up.
Don't you dare say. "heel."
Well. they didn't come in here.
We saw them leave the mill.
Hey. The nose knows.
I am getting a big-time
whiff of her in here.
Maybe she left something behind.
Oh. yeah.
Scent's real strong.
She could come back at some point.
Maybe we could crack
that Bordeaux while we wait.
Her name's Melissa Wincroft.
Whoa.
Did you just. like. Grimm that
in some kind of telepathic way?
No. I read it off an envelope.
Melissa Wincroft. owner and CEO.
This must've been her office.
That's cheating.
Well. I sniffed her out.
Good boy.
Yeah. this is definitely her place.
This is so the part
of the horror movie
where the sidekick gets it.
Just stay close.
What is it?
Shh.
Tell me we are not going upstairs.
We're going upstairs.
Damn.
I know. right?
Forensics says this stuff
is a preliminary match
to the apitoxin in Serena's system.
That clears our beekeepers.
Which makes
Melissa Wincroft our primary.
that clears if we could find her.
She didn't sell this place
or buy a new one.
It's like she just picked up
and disappeared.
Now. can you tell me how in the hell
you found this woman and her hive?
Well. it's all in the legal files.
Read 'em last night.
Everything's connected...
Shellow. Coleman. the mill.
even Serena.
Well. you could've called me.
Hey. doctor told you to rest.
Yeah. fine.
All right.
So. connect the dots.
Well. messy class-action
lawsuit about a year ago.
Serena represented ameri-mill
in a hostile takeover
of primrose paper.
Uh. the employees tried
to fight it... they lost.
Let me guess. two of those employees
were Doug shellow and John Coleman.
Exactly.
Melissa Wincroft was their boss.
Her family owned and operated
the mill for over a century.
She had the most to lose.
So she's taking revenge on Serena
for getting her company shut down.
- Mm-hmm.
- Detectives.
Sergeant Wu just called
from Chapman square.
There's been another
flash mob murder.
Another tweet. another flash mob.
This time. death by hokey pokey.
Witnesses say the victim was doing
her morning yoga routine
when it started.
Eye in the sky caught it all.
Shellow or Coleman in the group?
Nope. Whole new set
of flash mobbers this time.
But unis grabbed shellow
and Coleman about an hour ago.
They're at the precinct.
Both are staying silent
until they lawyer up.
Tell me you got a solid lead on this.
We're zeroing in
on a suspect... Melissa Wincroft.
That's Camilla Gotleib.
She was on the primrose paper
case with Serena.
Two dead lawyers from the same firm?
I'd say we got ourselves a pattern.
There was a third lawyer on the case.
I read it in the files.
This is Detective Burkhardt.
Send a unit to
Berman. Rautbort and associates
and take an attorney
into protective custody.
Her name's adalind schade.
Miss schade.
You.
I'm Captain Renard.
These are Detectives
Griffin and Burkhardt.
Detectives.
Thank you.
You can thank Detective Burkhardt.
He's the one who figured it all out.
Actually. I'm still trying
to piece it all together.
We need to ask you a few
questions. if you're up for it.
Can I offer you a cup of coffee?
Thanks.
Hey. Nick.
Nick.
You all right?
You look like you've seen a ghost.
You know this woman?
For a second. I thought
I'd seen her somewhere before.
But you're not sure.
There's a killer out there
that's already hit
two of her coworkers.
So. if you know something
about adalind schade.
now's the time to share it.
I don't know anything more
about her than you do.
Well. then just. um. stay
on your game and keep her safe.
Don't want her to be number three.
I need to see their tongues.
Whatever floats your boat.
The bodies were so swollen.
I had to cut 'em out
just to get a look inside.
Here they are.
Is there anything strange
on either of them?
What made that mark?
I thought that was weird too.
Here.
See?
But they're not tattoos.
These marks have nothing
to do with their deaths.
Who would do this hideous thing
to these girls?
Ms. Wincroft.
please answer the question
regarding the quarterly earnings.
This is not about the money.
They are trying to get rid of us.
These workers...
Everyone. we are a family.
And they're trying to shut us
down to get us out of the way.
Your quarterly earnings.
Ms. Wincroft.
I know who's behind this.
And they're not gonna
get away with it.
That sounds like a threat to me.
I can't believe she could've
done this to Serena and Camilla.
We just don't want you to be next.
Now. miss schade...
Please. call me adalind.
All my friends do.
All your friends are dead.
I mean. it just seems more personal
than a business transaction to me...
Eye for an eye sort of thing...
Like you hurt someone
close to her or something.
Some people don't get
the big picture.
I was just doing my job.
Hey. so am I.
Just trying to get
to the truth. here.
Unless miss schade
has something to hide.
No more than you do. Detective.
Look. I wish I could tell you
something more
about Melissa Wincroft.
but I really didn't know her.
I told you. it wasn't personal.
Yeah. well. maybe not for you.
But if someone tried to take
something important away from me.
I'd take it very personally.
You know. let's take a break.
Excuse us. adalind.
You coming?
What's up with you?
You're treating her
like she's the perp.
I don't trust her.
You don't have to.
You just have to protect her.
Come on. we gotta track down
Melissa Wincroft.
Burkhardt remembers me.
I pushed him.
but he's keeping it to himself.
Maybe he's just waiting
to get me alone.
I told you. I won't let
anything happen to you.
Is that what you told
Serena and Camilla?
Serena and Camilla are not you.
I can take care of myself.
Just find this queen.
Or I'm not the only one
who's gonna get stung.
Got it. thanks.
No credit card activity. no travel.
no sign of Melissa Wincroft
in the system.
She's got no known family.
Friends?
Well. we know about
John Coleman and Doug shellow.
but I doubt she's
gonna be calling them.
That look usually gets us in trouble.
Well. she might not be
getting in touch with them.
What if they got in touch with her?
Wu said Shellow's not cooperating
until he sees a lawyer.
We don't need him to cooperate.
We just need him to do
what he does best...
Send a message.
And he doesn't know
we're protecting adalind schade.
And neither does Melissa Wincroft.
Hey. Doug.
How you doing?
You hungry?
You and I have
some unfinished business.
So why don't we pick up
where we left off?
You were about
to show me some tweets.
Tweet this.
I don't have to do anything
until my lawyer gets here.
Oh. Doug.
We have you
at the scene of the crime.
We tailed you to a meeting
with our prime suspect.
You will do seven to ten
on conspiracy alone.
no matter how good your lawyer is.
So why do you wanna keep
protecting Melissa Wincroft?
There's gonna be
another victim. isn't there?
Tell me...
Who is it?
Doug. come on. do yourself a favor.
Who is Melissa Wincroft's
next target?
Nick. Captain needs to see you. now.
Hank. I'm in the middle of something.
This isn't over.
Oscar-worthy performance. de niro.
- Middle-school drama club.
- This better work.
It will.
It's in his nature.
Come on. Doug.
Phone's right there. buddy.
Take the bait.
There it is. Wu.
On it.
How quick does this stuff work?
There.
He just sent a direct message
to a blocked user.
Well. can you...
Of course I can. I'm Asian.
Okay.
Here's the message.
"They don't know. As open."
"As open."
"As."
A.S.--Adalind schade.
He just told Melissa Wincroft
to make the move.
You're home early. miss schade.
She's headed your way.
Which floor. miss schade?
Bird's in the nest.
Nice work.
Now. let's hope Melissa Wincroft
takes the bait.
Do you really think this'll work?
Well. we've gotta smoke her
out of her hiding place somehow.
Every eye in the department
is on your place.
Thanks. Detectives.
This is probably
a big inconvenience for you.
No. we're just doing our jobs.
nothing more.
Anyone want some room service?
I'm not really hungry.
Uh...
How about some tea...
Chamomile?
It's nice and relaxing...
Sure.
Nature's full
of powerful concoctions.
I'm gonna make yours a double.
There's gotta be a coffeemaker
around here somewhere.
- I know what you are.
- I'm an attorney.
You're a Hexenbiest.
just like Serena and Camilla.
I saw their marks.
Detective. I don't know what...
You tried to kill
my aunt in the hospital.
but you got me instead.
So were they in on it with you...
Your sisters?
Who do you work for?
Okay.
So you wanna play the victim.
So. tell me...
Why do the mellifers want you dead?
You're a Detective.
Figure it out.
I don't like this
any more than you do.
But if it's my duty to protect you.
I damn well better
have a good reason.
or I might have a bad day at work.
You shouldn't have involved me.
I'm clean.
I have nothing to do with this.
You have just as much
to lose as we do.
I don't wanna go to jail.
How can someone like you
take care of someone like us?
They're going to find you.
Not before I get to her.
There's no guarantee he'll
understand what you've done.
When she's dead. he'll understand.
Let's just get this over with.
They'll find her.
I can't help you unless you tell me
why Melissa Wincroft
wants to kill you.
You have no idea
what you're in the middle of.
Oh. well. then who could
blame me for making a mistake
and letting a queen mellifer
kill another Hexenbiest?
This won't end well.
For you.
Or you.
If something happens to me.
it won't just be a Grimm
killing a Hexenbiest.
It'll be a cop who's let
an innocent woman die on his watch.
Up to you.
Can I get a little help in here?
Won't budge.
It's like they're coming after us!
Oh!
Where are they going?
Adalind.
Adalind?
No sign of force entry.
Why would she run?
- Button's still lit. She didn't take it.
- I'll going up.
Adalind!
Adalind?
I have to kill him.
you don't understand.
Robin. I'm arresting you for the murders
of Serena Dunbrook and Camilla Gotleib.
I did it to protect you.
There's no excuse.
We're clarions.
We send warning calls.
We're under a side.
The lawsuit.
It was conspiracy to get rid of us.
they're not just lawyers.
It doesn't matter.
you killed two people.
Two Hexenbiests.
Closing the mill
was their way
of stopping us
from warning you.
Warning me?
Something's coming.
Something... bad.
I have to finish this.
Melissa.
Don't!
This isn't your problem.
Don't make a mistake.
She'll harm you.
Don't listen to her!
You're a cop!
Do your job!
Melissa!
You're a Grimm!
That's more important!
Help me. Please.
She killed my friends!
Melissa. back away!
Adalind. are you okay?
He's coming for you.
Who?
Beware. It's close.
You have to hunt down the bad ones.
just like your ancestors did.
Hank said you did the right thing.
Sometimes it's not that simple.
If it was simple.
they wouldn't need you.
I don't think I made any difference.
I tried to stop it.
But I didn't.
I think you made
a pretty big difference to Hank
and the woman whose life you saved.
Doesn't that make you feel
a little bit better
about what happened?
Yeah. it does.
I'm cold.
- I'm gonna close the window.
- No. I got it.
- Okay.
- Go back to bed.
Aah!
What happened?
I just got stung.
Sync and correction by Mlmlte
www.addic7ed.com